# A Gentle Introduction to Queraen Spirituality

Querae advances the idea that existence is far more than we can perceive with our five senses. Or, put another way, that there is life beyond this physical existence.

The five senses are bound by time and space. If they were a flashlight, you can only shine your beam of light into a very narrow focus; one spot at a time. But the reality of space, time, and existence is much different. Everything exists at once, including many things you may have never thought about. 

Perspective is everything. From my perspective, I am here writing this chapter right now. From another perspective, it happened already, or not yet, or never happened. If I were conscious enough to perceive it, I might realize that this moment is nothing at all, or that contained within it is everything else.

Using this philosophy, we are able to access collective wisdom and understand a few surprising things. For example, there is no sound without silence; no light without dark; no matter without space. These voids - the absence of being - is the collective unmanifested. It is infinitely larger than the infinite physical world we perceive.

If you are a person of science like I am, consider a more scientific proof that the unmanifested does indeed exist and is quite larger than anything we can imagine. Take any two numbers that are infinitely close together. For easy thinking, let's choose 1.999 and 2. Now, let us consider the space between these numbers. Perhaps we can bring the numbers closer together, such as 1.9999, or maybe 1.99999, or maybe even infinite 9's if you can imagine that. Yet still, it is not 2. That is the obvious part; the part taught in grade school. But now, invert your thinking. Ask yourself: how big is the space in between? How much distance is there between 1.999 with infinite 9's, and 2? You might answer, *infinitesimally small* and you would be correct. Or, you could answer *infinitesimally large* and you would also be correct. Infinity is both small and large, at the same time. Which, from another perspective, means infinity is both everything and nothing. Infinity is the name we give to all that is unexpressed and cannot be expressed. Others call it Heaven. 

In Querae, we recognize that it is the gaps between the things that is most interesting. The infinite unmanifested that is *not*, the unmanifested gaps between the manifested. At an atomic level, we barely exist. There is more *space* than matter in our physical form. There is more *absence* than presence. Infinitely more. Just as stars and galaxies have vast stretches of emptiness between them, so do the atoms that comprise our physical bodies. 

Now knowing how much infinite, unmanifested nothingness abounds, it is undeniable that all beauty and truth lies within this realm. Our physical forms and this observable world is but an infinitesimally small beam of flashlight shown upon an infinitely large existence.

"Great," you may object, "another *pantheist* religion. Everything is everything." Yes, but not exactly my point. Querae does not stop there. I have also observed that, in this physical world, and perhaps beyond, there are two basic types of energy. Call them yin and yang, masculine and feminine, this and that, or Que and Rae. One provides, the other receives. One dominates that which is manifested, the other brings forth the unmanifested for use. It is my belief that these complimentary energies create sexual and spiritual attraction when they are most polarized - that is, when one spirit works with masculine energy, and the other with feminine. Both spirits are capable of either, but the best and most passionate experience in our physical world is created with these polarities are observed and sought. 

In Querae, we are all called Seekers. Seekers of the Que or Seekers of the Rae. Of the masculine or feminine. It is a life-long journey to seek out and learn to work with these energy forms. 

Why, you might wonder, would one want to seek out either energy form? Why not just *be*? My answer comes from the experience of living and observation. Fundamentally, men are happiest when they provide and have a sense of mission or purpose. Women are happiest when they receive and are used, or put to their best use. This is the nature of the physical forms we take. Our bodies, or physical forms, respond best when our spirits run these energy polarities. That is the unique experience of being a dominant man or a life-creating woman; bringing forth the unmanifested and laying it at the man's feet for him to make and shape as he sees fit. In Querae, living to your fullest physical form is encouraged and ultimately leads to spiritual understanding, bonding, and ascendance. It leads to *unconditional love*, normally found only in the unmanifested.

There are, of course, exceptions to the above assertion. Some men would rather receive, some women would rather provide, and some spirits feel "trapped" in the wrong body or polarity altogether. If you are one of these exceptions, feel free to switch the genders and other vocabulary to best suit your understanding. My only suggestion and encouragement is that you do choose a polarity for yourself and seek the opposite in your partners.
