# A Word on Vocabulary

This book is full of words. Words can lead us astray, because they are encumbered with all the negative uses that cling to them throughout their use in history. I want to create a clean space for learning and spiritual discovery, yet the tools I have to work with have been used by so many to do so much. We must be ever vigilant to not allow negative energy into our space.

I encourage you to study the concepts contained therein, rather than focusing on the exact language used to express the ideas set forth. Words are merely sign posts; stepping stones to be discarded once true understanding is achieved. While these words are here to help you, the truth behind the concepts is the end goal.

Society has charged some words with such negative energy that, when said to someone without an enlightened or more expansive view of truth, can cause the conversation to immediately degrade into low vibrational noise. I encourage you to seek a higher vibration approach and to seek the truth behind the words I use. I have chosen such words for their higher spiritual meaning and my wish is that you realize and allow that intent to manifest in your heart. I view some words as too helpful to discard; their enlightenment and communication potential is simply too valuable to justify avoidance mere out of fear of creating offense or misunderstanding.

I use the words *Master* and *slave* throughout this book. Our modern day parlance defines this as involuntary subjugation and forcible enslavement. But at a spiritual level, it is not so. I seek in this book to describe a framework for forming a spiritual and lasting bond with true love of self and others. To do this, we must speak absolutely of concepts such as power exchange, surrender, ownership, domination, and submission. It is in our DNA to seek these things in the loving space of safety created by our studies here. My words express a higher ideal of living in a state of voluntary polarity, each with complimentary strengths and weaknesses. Further, the terms *Master* and *slave* describe the creation of magnificent polarity in our physical realm in order to free everyone to live a spiritually connected existence. In that respect, both Master and slave live in service to and need the strength of the other. The roles are balanced, yet not identical. My suggestion is that these concepts will be as clear to you as you are willing to open to them.

I also use words such as *service* and *surrender*. Again, this refers to an acceptance of what is and a willingness to lovingly put positive energy into your space. It is *not* intended to suggest that one is "beneath" another on a spiritual level. Both physically and spiritually, we all serve and surrender to our respective roles, and then to each other.

A note about gender roles and vocabulary. I use the words *he* and *she* throughout this book to refer to the embodiment of Que and Rae energy forms. The masculine and feminine. The yin and yang. The *this* and *that*. There are two such energy forms, and either may be embodied by either gender. I suggest choosing one energy form to pursue. Because males most often choose the Que energy and females most often choose the Rae energy, it means that Masters are predominantly men and slaves are predominantly women. But it does not have to be; and if you feel more comfortable reading the terms and genders from another perspective, please do. This is an unfortunate side effect of our physical plane; we cannot properly decouple gender from the language needed to express the energy polarities we study here. We literally have no way to communicate without showing gender preference. It's not the fault of language; it is the essence of our physical duality. It will never go away until physical genders cease to exist.

Though we are limited and constrained by language, what exists today is always the basis for the progress of tomorrow. I encourage you to be the forward thinker who chooses ideas over the words used to express them. In this way, you will grow despite the sometimes awkward and always beautiful characteristics of our physical realm. 